A tree data structure is a hierarchical structure that is used to represent and organize data in a way that is easy to navigate and search. It is a collection of nodes that are connected by edges and has a hierarchical relationship between the nodes. The topmost node of the tree is called the root, and the nodes below it are called the child nodes. Each node can have multiple child nodes, and these child nodes can also have their own child nodes, forming a recursive structure.

This data structure is a specialized method to organize and store data in the computer to be used more effectively. It consists of a central node, structural nodes, and sub-nodes, which are connected via edges. We can also say that tree data structure has roots, branches, and leaves connected with one another. 

The data in a tree are not stored in a sequential manner i.e, they are not stored linearly. Instead, they are arranged on multiple levels or we can say it is a hierarchical structure. For this reason, the tree is considered to be a non-linear data structure.



Basic Terminologies In Tree Data Structure:
Parent Node: The node which is a predecessor of a node is called the parent node of that node. {B} is the parent node of {D, E}.
Child Node: The node which is the immediate successor of a node is called the child node of that node. Examples: {D, E} are the child nodes of {B}.
Root Node: The topmost node of a tree or the node which does not have any parent node is called the root node. {A} is the root node of the tree. A non-empty tree must contain exactly one root node and exactly one path from the root to all other nodes of the tree.
Leaf Node or External Node: The nodes which do not have any child nodes are called leaf nodes. {K, L, M, N, O, P} are the leaf nodes of the tree.
Ancestor of a Node: Any predecessor nodes on the path of the root to that node are called Ancestors of that node. {A,B} are the ancestor nodes of the node {E}


Descendant: Any successor node on the path from the leaf node to that node. {E,I} are the descendants of the node {B}.
Sibling: Children of the same parent node are called siblings. {D,E} are called siblings.
Level of a node: The count of edges on the path from the root node to that node. The root node has level 0.
Internal node: A node with at least one child is called Internal Node.
Neighbour of a Node: Parent or child nodes of that node are called neighbors of that node.
Subtree: Any node of the tree along with its descendant.

Tree Terminologies

Root
In a tree data structure, the root is the first node of the tree. The root node is the initial node of the tree in data structures.
In the tree data structure, there must be only one root node.

Edge 
In a tree in data structures, the connecting link of any two nodes is called the edge of the tree data structure.
In the tree data structure, N number of nodes connecting with N -1 number of edges.

Parent 
In the tree in data structures, the node that is the predecessor of any node is known as a parent node, or a node with a branch from itself to any other successive node is called the parent node.

Child
The node, a descendant of any node, is known as child nodes in data structures.
In a tree, any number of parent nodes can have any number of child nodes.
In a tree, every node except the root node is a child node.
